[CoW AMM] Tutorial on how to deploy a Balancer CoW AMM (#405)
cowprotocol/docs: docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/cow-amm-deployer.mdx

sidebar_position: 6
---

# Initial notes

> The proposed transactions and interactions, can be executed through Safe's transaction builder, etherscan "Write Contract" or from other UI mechanisms or directly from console.

Reviewer: Mentioning "Safe's transaction builder" is somewhat irrelevant and ties the documentation loosely to Safe, which is not necessary as the Balancer implementation is usable by _any_ type of account, smart contract or not.

Additionally, I'd recommend to use more firm language (it is a tutorial after all, so some concrete steps are expected).

# Deploying a CoW AMM

In this short tutorial, we describe how one can create and deploy their own Balancer CoW AMM.

The current factory contract addresses are the following:
- Ethereum Mainnet: [`0x23fcC2166F991B8946D195de53745E1b804C91B7`](https://etherscan.io/address/0x23fcC2166F991B8946D195de53745E1b804C91B7#code)
- Gnosis Chain: [`0x7573B99BC09c11Dc0427fb9c6662bc603E008304`](https://gnosisscan.io/address/0x7573B99BC09c11Dc0427fb9c6662bc603E008304#code)

> - Sepolia Testnet: [`0x9F151748595bAA8829d44448Bb3181AD6b995E8e`](https://sepolia.etherscan.io/address/0x9F151748595bAA8829d44448Bb3181AD6b995E8e#code)

Reviewer: If we are supplying addresses, we should likely also link to the repository where these addresses / deployment information are derived from so that readers can independently verify this.

Reviewer 2: The repository to link is the following: https://github.com/balancer/cow-amm but the address need to be updated to:  

- Ethereum Mainnet: [`0xf76c421bAb7df8548604E60deCCcE50477C10462`](https://etherscan.io/address/0xf76c421bAb7df8548604E60deCCcE50477C10462#code)
- Gnosis Chain: [`0x703Bd8115E6F21a37BB5Df97f78614ca72Ad7624`](https://gnosisscan.io/address/0x703Bd8115E6F21a37BB5Df97f78614ca72Ad7624#code)
- Sepolia Testnet: [`0x1E3D76AC2BB67a2D7e8395d3A624b30AA9056DF9`](https://sepolia.etherscan.io/address/0x1E3D76AC2BB67a2D7e8395d3A624b30AA9056DF9#code)

1. In order to create a new pool, one first needs to call the `newBPool` function of the factory contract. An example transaction that creates a new pool can be found [here](https://etherscan.io/tx/0x7543a97853827e267ecd3c1309509ac7704e4f85a53fbfacd6060f461d85bad8#eventlog). The relevant `LOG_NEW_POOL` log also reveals the address of the newly created pool; in our example transaction, it is `0x81530e9B069c69F6671A0A9d7Ee337cafEF419F6`.

:::note

> In case ABI of the factory contract is not fetched, the ABI from the Sepolia network can be used.

Reviewer: Malformed sentence. Also, advising using ABI between networks may be fraught and lead to misunderstanding on deployments. It is best to link to the actual ABI that is within the respective source repository.

:::

> 2. Once the new pool has been created, the next step is to approve the tokens we want to add to the pool; this can be done by calling the `approve()` function of the contract of the relevant ERC-20 token we are interested in adding to the pool, where the "spender" needs to be set to the newly created address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The next step is to approve the tokens to add to the pool; this can be done by calling the `approve()` function on the contract of the relevant ERC-20 token that is being added to the pool, where the "spender" needs to be set to the newly created BPool address from (1).
```

:::caution

One needs to taken the token's decimals into account in order to set the correct approval.
:::

> 3. The next step is to bind the approved tokens to the pool, by using the `bind()` function of the newly created pool contract. We need to do one bind per token that will be added to the pool. Note that the `denorm` parameter should always be set to 1000000000000000000 (i.e., 10^18).

Reviewer: If using "note", use the docusaurus admonitions, i.e.

```
:::note

Insert note here

:::
```

4. We can then set the swap fee; this is the fee trades will pay if they trade permissionlessly (i.e., outside of the batch), and this is done by calling the `setSwapFee()` function of the pool contract. The fee parameter needs to be specified in wei, hence, a 10% fee would be 100000000000000000 (i.e., 10^17)

:::caution

> The fee parameter is an unsigned integer where 10^18 corresponds to 100% of fee. Note that 100% is actually not a valid value though, but one can set up to 99.99% (this needs to be verified).

Reviewer: "this needs to be verified" ?
